So we added this auto sign in functionality here
and with that, we can automatically sign the user in if we have a token in async storage
and if we don't have a token in the redux store then this is relevant,
however what if our token expired? We have this expiry time of one hour which I mentioned and this of course
can be a big problem because it means that we might sign the user in so allow access to some of our
screens which will actually send a token to the backend without a valid token because there will be
a token but it expired.
We can still send requests to the backend but there, we will get back an error because the token,
keep in mind is always verified on the server and there, it will fail if it's invalid, if it expired,
the server will check this and will deny access,
this is a very unpleasant user experience and in our app, we wouldn't even show the login screen because
we have the token in storage, so that is something we definitely don't want to end up in.
So we need to take this expiry time into account
and of course that is relevant when we store the token in async storage,
we should also store the time when it expires at this point of time. For that,
let's not only pass the ID token to auth store token but also parsed response
and then it was expiresIn, this was the key under which we can get the time in seconds.
Now as I said, 3600 seconds is the default by firebase, you can't change that,
now we want to use this here,
so in auth store token, we no longer get just the token,
we also get the expiry time here or let's name it expiresIn here too. Now I want to use that information
and of course storing that time does make absolutely no sense because that is still always just 3600
seconds no matter how many have passed,
so instead we need to find out when this is, so when it will expire.
So let's for this get now which is just new date,
this gives us the current date and we can use this in react native
and then the expiry date is simply now plus,
now here, this would be the date object,
I need to get the time though which will be in milliseconds and now I add this one hour, so I add expiresIn,
this however is in seconds
so I multiply this with 1000 to have it in milliseconds and now we have the expiry date.
Now I'll add a console log and output the current date and also new date and pass expiry date because
that is a date in millisecond format, this converts it into a readable date.
Now of course our application can't be reloaded because we're already logged in so we never run this
code,
so what I'll do is I'll simply uninstall the app
here on the simulator
and then rerun npm run ios to rebuild it and reinstall it.
Now if you don't want to repeat this for every change, you can temporarily comment out this storage code
here so that you don't have to reload it all the time,
I'll go with this approach.
Now make sure to attach this to the debugger,
this new app here which you installed and then let's simply login and scroll up and there you now see the
object get back from the backend
but there, you also see the current date and then the expiry date which as you can see is one hour after
the current date.
And this is exactly what I want,
this is exactly what I need,
with that we get the logic to store the expiry date too.
So let's also store that in the async storage, I set another item related to auth
and that is the expiry date or expiration date, whatever you want to call it
and there I will store my expiry date.
Now the interesting thing will be to always check that expiry date when we try to automatically log
the user in or when we get this token to be precise, here we get the token and we clearly want to reject
if we don't have a token, however
so this check here is always important,
however if we do have a token here, we're still not safe, here I then
also want to check if that token is still valid.
So here I will access async storage again,
call get item and get ap auth and then it was expiry date,
so essentially the key we added up here. Now I will return this check here to not to create an unnecessarily
deep nested promise chain here and instead add another then call which will be executed,
also add a catch block where we get an error and simply reject if we do get an error. In the then block
however, we get the expiry date,
there I theoretically want to set the token in my redux storage, in my redux store
but before I do this, I will have to check if expiry date is actually in the future.
So I will create a parsed expiry date because what I get out of my async storage will be a string,
so here I will call date parse and parse the expiry date
I get here,
so I parse the string into a real date and then I will also get
now new date and I will check if the expiry date is greater than the current date,
so if the parsed expiry date is greater than now. If that's the case then we know the token is still valid
because the expiry date lies in the future,
so now I can dispatch auth set token and resolve token from storage,
otherwise if that's not the case, I'll reject here because then the token is not valid,
you might have a token but it is expired.
Now there is one other case where we also want to reject or to be precise, there's only one case where we want
to continue, the parsed expiry date has to be greater than now,
this will also fail if it is null and expiry date can be null if we don't find it because keep in mind,
the catch block here is simply triggered if we have issues during accessing the storage, not if we don't
find this,
so if we don't find this, expiry date here will be null, parsed expiry date then will be not a number,
therefore this will fail
so we're safe in this condition too which we can prove by simply reloading
the app.
It fails because we never stored an expiry date because we added this code after we already had a date
in the storage.
So with that, let's now try logging in here and submit this and we get an error that NSNumber cannot
be converted to NSString.
Now we get this error because we try to store the token, excuse me, the date like this,
the date is a number object though and async storage only accepts strings.
So what we can do is we can simply call toString, just like that, to really turn this into a string before
trying to save it.
So now if we reload the application and try this again with the updated code saved of course,
now we're logged in
and now if I reload it, it still fails,
so why? It fails because in the then block where we get the expiry date, date
parse would only work if we had stored a date string,
that's a tiny mistake though,
what we store is the expiry date in this millisecond format right,
we never turn it into a date object.
We could do that but we can also simply replace date parse with new date to take that amount in
milliseconds and construct the new date from it,
then however we have to turn expiry date which will be a string into a number
and that of course can be done with the parseInt function
we can simply use here.
So now if we wrap expiry date with parseInt and use new date here, if we now reload the application, then it
still doesn't load
but that's simply due to the reason that we dispatch token from storage,
well we don't have that in here right, we're in a different then block.
So we can use the same solution we used earlier, here I create a variable, maybe fetched token and then
here when we get token from storage, we set fetched token equal to token from storage and then we can use
the fetch token in the other then block here.
And with this finally if we reload everything, we're redirected, let's also see if find places worked,
yes it did, we would have gotten an error earlier otherwise.
Now to quickly debug that, let's temporarily override our logic where we set it to expiresIn
times 1000
and let's instead set it to 60 times 1000, so to one minute instead of one hour. Now or maybe even just 20
to have a short waiting period, then I will uninstall this application to clear the async storage again
and I will rebuild the app of course
and now I just want to check if the first time I tried, the login succeeds because I'm within that 20 second
period
but the second time after 20 seconds, it shouldn't succeed anymore.
So let me quickly sign in here,
now we got 20 seconds ticking so if I reload this, I'm also taken back here and I can reload it like this,
I also should be able to clear it and reload it like this
but now after 20 seconds are gone and passed by which should be the case soon,
now I just make it to the login screen because it expired.
So that's working as it should,
really great.
Let's revert this to expiresIn now.